Remove Python and R code for setting quota + add more descriptions. (#761)
Sage-Bionetworks/synapseDocs: _articles/evaluation_queues.md

title: Evaluation Queues
layout: article

> excerpt: A Synapse Queue contains user submitted models/files to execute for challenges and benchmarking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: A Synapse Queue contains user submitted models or files to execute for challenges and benchmarking.
```

category: reproducible-research
---

An Evaluation queue allows for people to submit Synapse `Files`, `Docker` images, etc. for evaluation. They are designed to support open-access data analysis and modeling challenges in Synapse. This framework provides tools for administrators to collect and analyze data models from Synapse users created for a specific goal or purpose.

## Create an Evaluation Queue

> To create a queue, you must first create a Synapse `Project`. To create a Synapse Project, follow the instructions on the [Project and Data Management]({{ site.baseurl}}{% link _articles/getting_started.md %}#making-and-managing-projects-in-synapse) page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a queue, you must first create a Synapse `Project` or have [edit permissions]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _articles/sharing_settings.md#edit-permissions %}) on an existing Project. To create a Synapse Project, follow the instructions on the [Project and Data Management]({{ site.baseurl}}{% link _articles/getting_started.md %}#making-and-managing-projects-in-synapse) page. 
```

> Once you've created your project, navigate to it and add `/challenge` to the url (e.g. www.synapse.org/#!Synapse:syn12345/challenge). Click **Tools** in the right corner and select **Add Evaluation Queue**.

Reviewer: Could the steps also be 
Select the Challenge tab, click **Challenge Tools*** in the right corner and select **Add Evaluation Queue** ?

Author: The challenge tab is hidden unless you are an admin + there is a challenge object associated with it.

Reviewer: ah interesting - I guess this was a UI update I missed. 

Ok I agree leaving the wording as **Tools** is appropriate.

What permissions do you need to make a challenge? (e.g. if I'm not admin on a project, enter "/challenge" into the URL, I see **Challenge Tools** with no options.)

Author: You need to be an Admin of the project to create a challenge

> <img style="width: 80%;" src="/assets/images/create_evaluation_queues.png">

Reviewer: I think we need an updated image since the UI change to Challenge tools.

An Evaluation queue can take several parameters that you can use to customize your preferences.

* Name – Unique name of the evaluation
* Description – A short description of the evaluation
* Submission Instructions – Message to display to users detailing acceptable formatting for submissions.
* Submission Receipt Message – Message to display to users upon submission

{% include note.html content="The name of your evaluation queue MUST be unique, otherwise the queue will not be created." %}

### Setting Quotas on an Evaluation Queue

Optionally, you can restrict how things are submitted by using a quota.

> <img style="width: 80%;" src="/assets/images/evaluation_queue_quota.png">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img style="width: 40%;" src="/assets/images/evaluation_queue_quota.png">
```

> An Evaluation queue can only have one quota. If you want to change how long the queue is open, the start date, round duration, and number of rounds are required parameters. It is optional to set submission limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Evaluation queue can only have one quota. You may specify the length of time the queue is open, the start date, round duration, and number of rounds. These are required parameters. It is optional to set submission limit.
```

{% include important.html content="When someone submits to an Evaluation, a copy of the submission is made, so a person with Administrator or Can score access will be able to download the submission even if the submitter deletes the entity." %}

## Close an Evaluation Queue
While there isn't technically a way of "closing" an evaluation queue, there are multiple ways to discontinue submissions for users.

> * Users are only able to submit to a queue if they have `can submit` permissions to it. If you have the ability to modify the permissions of a Queue, you will still be able to submit to the queue due to your `administrator` access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Users are only able to submit to a queue if they have `can submit` permissions to it. If you have the ability to modify the permissions of a queue, you will still be able to submit to the queue due to your `administrator` access.
```

> * If the Quota is set so that the current date exceeds the the round start + round duration, no one will be able to submit to the queue (even administrators).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the quota is set so the current date exceeds the the round start + round duration, no one will be able to submit to the queue. This includes users with administrator permissions.
```
